.TH coml 1 "31 July 1995" "GIG's Utilities" "Version 1.04"
.SH NAME
coml - COMpare sorted Lists of text
.SH SYNOPSIS
coml [flags] file1 file2 [...file32]
.SH DESCRIPTION
COML was written to compare
multiple lists of items and determine
items common to all lists (the intersection of all sets),
a complete list of all items (the union),
as well as a damage report of those items
missing from one or more lists.

This last result is the default output form,
and is most useful for determining what files
are missing from directories that should contain
the same files, like source tracks.

In reality, COML is simply comparing
lines of text read from the input files,
and these files can contain any type of text,
but the important thing is that the files
are expected to be SORTED
in ascending order by the default collating sequence,
with the entire record being the sort key.
Also note that you can only specify up to 32 files,
and the records read from each file cannot exceed
255 bytes.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 12
-A
Display all items in all input files,
not just those items that are missing
from one or more files.
.TP
-C
Display only the items that are common
to all input files.
.TP
-L
Produce output as a single list of items
instead of producing output in a report format
that shows which items came from which files.
.TP
-Sn
Make each output column "n" characters wide.
Useful for squeezing many input files containing
short items on one page,
or for spreading out a few files with long lines
so the items can be read.
.TP
-V
Spit out a little debug information
for rooting around in the utility's innards.
.SH EXAMPLES
Assume that the Food And Meal Information Services Hostel
(FAMISH) manages its source in three directories,
bend, coosbay, and drain,
each expected to contain the source files
apple.c, bagel.c, cake.c, donut.c, and eclair.c,
but each directory is missing one file.

   % ls bend    > B
   % ls coosbay > C
   % ls drain   > D
   % coml B C D
   Differences between lines in these files
      B            C            D           
      ------------ ------------ ------------
      -            bagel.c      bagel.c     
      cake.c       -            cake.c      
      donut.c      donut.c      -           

This quickly shows that
bend is missing bagel.c,
coosbay is missing cake.c, and
drain is missing donut.c
(how symmetrical).
To see this report including all files,
tack the -A option on the command line.

   % coml -a B C D
   Differences between lines in these files
      B            C            D           
      ------------ ------------ ------------
      apple.c      apple.c      apple.c     
      -            bagel.c      bagel.c     
      cake.c       -            cake.c      
      donut.c      donut.c      -           
      eclair.c     eclair.c     eclair.c    

You can turn the information in this report
into a list by adding the -L switch.
This just happens to be handy to read into
shell script arrays for processing the list.

   % coml -a -l B C D
   apple.c
   bagel.c
   cake.c
   donut.c
   eclair.c

You'll notice the above list corresponds
to the union of all lists.
The -C option shows the files
common to all directories,
or the intersection of the lists.

   % coml -c B C D
   Common items between lines in these files
      B            C            D           
      ------------ ------------ ------------
      apple.c      apple.c      apple.c     
      eclair.c     eclair.c     eclair.c    

And this, too, can be turned into a list
suitable for processing in a shell script.

   % coml -c -l B C D
   apple.c
   eclair.c

Of course, the original damage report output
can also be turned into a list.

   % coml -l B C D
   bagel.c
   cake.c
   donut.c
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sort(1),
diff(1).
.SH BUGS
While sort has the ability to sort records
based on keys within each record,
COML expects the files to already be
sorted, and does not have the ability to
distinguish fields within a record,
but uses the entire input record assuming
it was the sort key.

While COML can determine the union and
the intersection of sets of data,
it can't easily determine other manipulations
such as the difference between sets.
.SH AUTHOR
Greg Grimes <sasgig@unx.sas.com>
