.TH cvtbt 1 "31 July 1995" "GIG's Utilities" "Version 1.05"
.SH NAME
cvtbt - ConVerT Binary to Text.
.SH SYNOPSIS
cvtbt [flags] binfile txtfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
Converts a file containing unprintable (uneditable) characters
into an editable text file containing multi-byte codes
for the characters considered unprintable.
.SH PARAMETERS
The command line arguments for CVTBT
are two file specifications and some optional flags.
The first file specification is the input file,
the file containing the unprintable (binary) characters.
The second file specification names the output file,
the text file to generate.
The following flags may be used to
control the conversion process.
.TP 12
--S
Suppress the summary messages.
.TP
-Ln
Produce a newline after <n> bytes.
If <n> is specified as zero (0),
no newlines will be produced.
The default is 72.
.TP
-Pn
Produce a form feed after <n> lines.
If <n> is specified as zero (0),
no form feeds will be produced.
The default is to produce no form feeds.
.TP
-Gt
Consider the data to be graphics streams
and decode either Tektronix (t=1) or DDL (t=2)
graphics data.
.TP
-A
Use numeric codes instead of the characters themselves
in place of printable (editable) characters.
In other words, use codes for all characters,
not just unprintable ones.
.TP
-N
Use numeric codes instead of multi-byte character names
when converting unprintable characters.
.TP
-Hx
Use hex notation for numeric codes.
These will be either three or four byte codes
(0x0 thru 0xFF) when "x" is 1,
or always four byte codes (0x00 thru 0xFF)
when "x" is 2.
Hex numbers begin with "0x"
just like hex constants in C.
.TP
-Dx
Use decimal notation for numeric codes.
These will be between one and three byte codes
(0 thru 255) when "x" is 1,
or always five byte codes (0d000 thru 0d255)
when "x" is 2.
Decimal numbers do not begin with a leading zero (0)
just like decimal constants in C.
Decimal numbers beginning with "0d"
are peculiar to the CVTBT and CVTTB utilities.
.TP
-Ox
Use octal notation for numeric codes.
These will be between two and four byte codes
(00 thru 0377) when "x" is 1,
or always five byte codes (0o000 thru 0o377)
when "x" is 2.
Octal numbers begin with a leading zero (0)
just like octal constants in C.
Octal numbers beginning with "0o"
are peculiar to the CVTBT and CVTTB utilities.
.SH EXAMPLES
A simple minded binary file editing capability
can be accomplished with the commands

   % cvtbt binfile /tmp/temp
   % $EDITOR       /tmp/temp
   % cvttb         /tmp/temp binfile

However, it may not be easy to navigate around
in the intermediate text file,
especially if the binary file is long.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
comf(1),
cvttb(1),
disf(1),
genbf(1),
zapf(1).
.SH BUGS
It would be extremely handy if the resulting text file
had its lines broken at newlines in the input file
so the output bore some resemblence to the input,
if the input file were a text file.
.SH AUTHOR
Greg Grimes <sasgig@unx.sas.com>
