.TH disf 1 "31 July 1995" "GIG's Utilities" "Version 1.06"
.SH NAME
disf - DISplay Files in Hexadecimal and ASCII.
.SH SYNOPSIS
disf [flags] file...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Displays the contents of the specified files in
a post-mortem-dump style report including hex
and ASCII representations of all bytes and the
offsets from the beginning of the file in decimal
and hex.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 12
-X
To conserve space and make the output more readable,
lines of the formatted dump containing identical information
are suppressed with the message

                - ## lines the same -

On occasion, it's useful to have these lines included
in the output, such as for mapping the contents of
control blocks.
The -X switch deactivates the suppression mechanism
to include all dumped characters in the output.
.TP
-Yn
The characters shown in the ASCII portion of the dump
are those considered to be printable, by default.
All others are replaced with a period (.)
unless the -Y switch is specified.
-Y or -Y1 will include characters with values above 127
in the ASCII portion of the dump.
-Y2 will also include selected characters with values
below 32 in the ASCII portion of the dump,
but this is only useful on PCs.
.TP
-Z
The -Z switch is used for debugging common subroutines
in GIG's Utilities such as the usdump() code
used to display the hexadecimal and ASCII dump format.
Normally, this information is not very useful
to the casual user.
.SH EXAMPLES
On UNIX boxes, it's easy to see that lines are terminated
with simple newlines with the following example.

   % echo foo > foo
   % disf foo
   Hex dump file "foo"
           0 /      0:  666f6f0a                        foo.

On PCs, we can use the same method to show that lines are
terminated by a carriage return and line feed pair.

   C:\\> echo foo > foo
   C:\\> disf foo
   Hex dump file "FOO"
           0 /      0:  666f6f20 0d0a                   foo ..

These examples also explain why files are a few bytes longer
than the text you type into them.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
comf(1),
cvtbt(1),
cvttb(1),
genbf(1),
od(1),
xd(1),
zapf(1).
.SH BUGS
It would be nice to be able to dump
only selected parts of a file.
There is no support for that yet.
The current intent is to use filters
like head, tail, and grep to manipulate
the output of disf.
.SH AUTHOR
Greg Grimes <sasgig@unx.sas.com>
